Welcome back.
I want to talk about one last thing before we get into our exercise that is third party libraries and
how they work with typescript.
I mean up until now we've just used javascript which typescript understands.
But what if we're using something like Jay Querrey or react or any other library.
Most of the time we were using syntax that is not really Javascript.
So for example we're going to be using a create react up type script project to actually add type script
to our create react up.
And this is pretty much the standard.
You don't want to roll out your own just like create react up this repo which as you can see it's pretty
popular.
Sets everything up for you including the compiler including all the configurations.
But the problem is that once we start this with just our regular typescript it's not going to understand
what re-act is or what.
JF sex's I mean this package does it for you but how does that actually work.
Well typescript allows you to use something called declaration files which are files that allow you
to describe the shape of code that it is written in so you can add files that we can reference to tell
typescript Hey I'm also using this library use these types that I just made up for you.
Let me show you what I mean.
There's the definitely typed dot org which is the standard place to look for any types for third party
libraries.
And here you can just to type search and go to things like react and grab the re-act package and you
see here that it has the at types re-act and this had types re-act gives us the declaration file to
make sure that our typescript compiler understands react.
So in the project over here that I actually just cloned if I go into the node modules folder we see
that they automatically have a folder called at types that's pre-installed for us.
If I click on this I see that all right I have just I have node I have react and react on.
So looks like we're able to understand re-act syntax like GSX because we have these types.
If I click on the index daddy TS which is the main file which I have over here I see that I have this
little thing at the top which all my files have.
Which gives us global access to some of these types.
That means we can use them in any file and you see here and don't get overwhelmed.
This is a lot but re-act gives us types such as react we have the
react element type we see it as an interface that has props property.
We can keep scrolling down and see that there's also react child type there is react no and there's
a ton and I don't want to get overwhelmed here because most of the time you're not really looking through
these files you're looking online of what people have done documentation and code examples.
And you're only probably going to use a few of these regular occurring ones but you also see that we
have things like mouse event focus event keyboard event all these types are now available for us when
we include typescript in our project.
And this file was downloaded just like over here through NPM through the definitely typed website.
And this is the most popular repository for these declaration follows because for many many javascript
libraries they don't really provide their own declaration files.
These are community created declaration pulse because most of these libraries aren't developed with
typescript they're written in javascript but luckily the community maintains this and tries to keep
up with the libraries and provide declaration files for them and by using definitely typed and the declaration
files that we get we're able to use some of the most popular javascript libraries like react as if they
were written in typescript in the sense that you'll actually have type of validation that the compiler
would check against for re-act types.
Now you're thinking to yourself Oh boy.
We're adding a lot of complexity here and I'm going to give you a warning here.
It is complex typescript really adds a lot.
Now not only do we have to make sure that we have these files for our third party libraries.
We have to learn new types that these third party libraries provide.
We also are hoping that these declaration files are kept up to date as the actual re-act package gets
updated.
Again we're adding more pieces to the puzzle which may not always be a good thing.
But let's get into the next section.
We're going to start off our exercise and actually start to write some typescript in our re-act up.
I'll see in the next one.
Buh-Bye.